---
layout: post
title:  "Singapore Polytechnic Final Year Project"
date:   2018-04-01 09:29:20 +0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<b>Apr 2018 - Nov 2018</b>

<b>Project Name:</b> Location-based Attendance Taking System

<b>Role:</b> Developer and Researcher for Android platform

Revamped Singapore Polytechnics Attendance Taking System (ATS) using beacon technology which utilizes bluetooth to transmit signals to various receivers. 

The old ATS requires the lecturer to generate a six-digit code during the start of the class to allow students to take their attendance using the Attendance Taking App. The implication of this is that students who wants to skip class can message their classmate for the code, and they can key in the code and have their attendance marked as present as long as they are connected to the school wifi.

To tackle this issue, the lecturer's mobile phone will act as a virtual beacon. The student's phone will act as a receiver, detecting the signals transmitted by the lecturer's phone. Upon close proximity, the signals will be detected by the student's phone, allowing them to enter the six-digit code and take their attendance.

The project team was split into android and ios sub teams so that we can integrate the beacon technology in both android and ios platforms.

Under the guidance of our school lecturers, the project team entered the Smart Poly FYP competition hosted by our school and managed to secure second place.

<b>Technologies/Frameworks used:</b>
<ul>
    <li>Xamarin</li>
    <li>iBeacon library</li>
    <li>SQL Server 2014</li>
    <li>Microsoft Azure for Database Hosting</li>
    <li>C#, SOAP, XML for Web Services</li>
</ul>